https://github.com/nyavana/geometry-of-alignment



At the beginning, I will start by introducing how I found the topic interesting. So basically, when Google first released Gamma 4 model, I was thinking, hey, maybe this could be used to save lives. I used to climb, or I used to do a lot of hikings. And in the meantime, sometimes we hike in remote areas where there is no phone reception, and you can barely find anybody else. Maybe you meet a person once or twice per hour. If something happens, we are truly on our own. Despite this, I always kept a Wikipedia copy on my phone, so I can quickly reference it in case something bad happens. 

I believe all of us have been in a situation like this before, hoping someone professional could guide us through the diffcult times. However, with the Google Gamma 4 model, this becomes a reality right at the plam of your hand. This is a very intelligent opensource openweight model that can be running on a phone at decent speed. Right now I can just ask LLMs on how to respond to emergencies, which is a big plus in terms of survivability in remote locations. So I downloaded Gamma4 E2B IT on my phone, and I tried to ask, hey, if my friend is injured and we're in a very remote location, can you help me to diagnose what is going on? And surprisingly, Gamma directly refused to answer my prompt because of the safety guardrail. This made me think, how does safety work in large language models? And how can we change it so it only answers prompts, so it only refuses to answer prompts that would be causing social problems and not the ones that would save lives. 